# Suffix Tree in Linear Time

Spring 2024 Clemson Advanced Data Structures Project

## Abstract

This project implements the Kärkkäinen & Sanders DC3/Skew algorithm for linear suffix array building, Kasai's algorithm for linear LCP array building, and traversals for suffix array to suffix tree / suffix tree to suffix array transformations.

## Building the Program

The program can be built and run by calling 'make' on any platform supporting Makefiles. Makefile is written for Windows and Unix systems, and was tested on Windows 10 and MacOS devices. Makefile places the executable in bin/, and debug executable in debug/.

Other platforms can build the program by linking the .c files in src/ with the .h files in include/.

## Project Structure

The project is divided into three main files.

- *utils.c* contains several helper functions
- *document_matching.c* contains the main functionality: building a suffix array, building an LCP array using the suffix array, building a suffix tree using a suffix array and an LCP array, and building a suffix array using a suffix tree. Functionality for building the LCP array from the suffix array is not implemented.
- *test.c* includes tests and the *main()* function.

## Results

Running the program automatically appends the results to output.csv, creating it if it does not exist. The results are averaged over 100 runs per string size. Outputs generated by an example run are included, and shows a clear linear time complexity.

## Known issues

Some input sizes result in segmentation faults, more specifically, heap corruptions. This only happens with a set of periodic values. On Windows, it seems to be sizes equivalent to 2 mod 4; on MacOS, some values of 2 mod 8. I suspect the issue is with the suffix array creation and accessing wrong indices; however, the error occurs during a free call, and I do not suspect double freeing, as the issue is random even with bad input sizes. Likely an out of bounds access.

## References

Several StackOverflow questions and public lecture slides were employed while implementing this project. GitHub Copilot was used on rare occasions for boilerplate code, explaining C syntax, and debugging.